Now git revert is one option,
and typically, it should be the preferred option
since it keeps the history of commits clean
and you're not starting to rewrite history.
But sometimes you really want to delete a commit.
You want to get rid of a commit,
and you can do that with the git reset --hard command.
This also needs the ID of a commit,
but here it's the ID of a commit you want to go back to.
And all the commits
since that commit you want to go back to,
will be deleted.
That's what get reset --hard does,
and you should be careful with that command
because you can't really get back those changes
that were made after this commit
once you executed that command,
and you're also rewriting history.
And with Git, the idea really
is that you never lose any changes or state,
but you just keep on adding new changes.
Wit git reset --hard,
you are actually losing something,
and therefore,
it's not something you should use all the time.
Nonetheless, here,
I could, for example,
go back to the state where I have this link
by using git reset --hard and pointing at this commit
or go back to my very first initial commit
by copying that ID and running git reset --hard,
and then using that commit ID.
If I hit enter here,
you'll see that now after running git log,
I have only one commit left,
which is my initial commit.
I really got rid of my commit history
and all these other commits.
Again, that works but you should use it with care
And that's it for all these key commands you should know
when working with Git,
at least if we ignore branches,
which is another key feature
we'll explore in the next minutes.
Before we take a look at branches
there's just one other commit-related feature
that I also want to explore,
and that's how you can commit multiple changes
in multiple files at once,
and how you can still make sure that certain files
or folders are always ignored.